= Moonshine

Moonshine is Rails deployment and configuration management done right.

By leveraging capistrano and puppet, moonshine allows you have a working application server in 15 minutes, and be able to sanely manage it's configuration from the comfort of your version control of choice.

To get started, check out our {tutorial}[https://github.com/railsmachine/moonshine/wiki/Tutorial]. It covers configuring and deploying your application for the first time with Moonshine.

Once you're a bit more comfortable with Moonshine, you'll find our documentation on {the wiki}[https://github.com/railsmachine/moonshine/wiki] to be helpful!

== About this fork

This fork makes Moonshine use Nginx as default server for your Rails app. Additionally, it tweaks some MySQL and Passenger settings to get more sensible defaults on a Rails 3 app. Please follow
the instructions in the Installation section below for help on setting up your server.
Please note that this fork is aimed at Ubuntu 10.10 Server Edition.

My fork is based on the work of {titanous}[https://github.com/titanous/moonshine], he made the Nginx stuff possible.

Do not hesitate to improve my work. Any sensible pull request is much appreciated.

== Requirements

* A server running Ubuntu 10.10 Server Edition
* A Rails 3 app
* A user on this server that can:
  * Execute commands via sudo
  * Access your application's source code repository

== Installation

- Download and install the {Ubuntu 10.10 Server Edition}[http://www.ubuntu.com/server/get-ubuntu/download] image on your server.
- Install the SSH server

 server:~$ sudo apt-get install ssh

- Create a +rails+ user. This is what Moonshine will use for it's operations. Make sure you use the +adduser+ command and NOT the +useradd+ command.

 server:~$ sudo adduser rails

- Set a password for the rails user

 server:~$ sudo passwd rails

- Give the +rails+ user sudo permisions

 server:~$ sudo visudo # add "rails ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD:ALL" below the "root ALL=(ALL) ALL" line

- Add the rails user to the +sudo+ group

 server:~$ sudo usermod -a -G sudo rails

- Copy (via SCP) and install your local public key on the server

 local:~$ scp ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub rails@server:my_key.pub
 local:~$ ssh rails@server

- And add your public key to the +authorized_keys+ file on the server

 server:~$ mkdir /home/rails/.ssh
 server:~$ cat my_key.pub > /home/rails/.ssh/authorized_keys

- Make sure your server's +rails+ user has access to your git repository (e.g. Github) via its public key.
- Now add this Moonshine fork to your Rails 3 app as a plugin

 local:~$ rails plugin install git://github.com/marceldegraaf/moonshine.git

- And generate the configuration files and manifest

 local:~$ rails generate moonshine

- Edit the +moonshine.yml+ file, especially the +application+, +deploy_to+ and +repository+ keys.
- Next, capify your Rails app

 local:~$ capify .

- Edit the +deploy.rb+ file to reflect your server's IP address or hostname.
- Push your changes to your app's repo (the location where Moonshine will be pulling from)
- Now you're ready to prepare your server for your app. This command takes a while, {here are some kittens}[http://images.google.com/images?hl=en&source=imghp&biw=1440&bih=803&q=kittens&gbv=2&aq=f&aqi=g10&aql=&oq=]
 local:~$ cap deploy:setup
- When the server is set up, deploy your app

 local:~$ cap deploy

- After deploying for the first time, you should manually start the Nginx server

 server:~$ sudo /etc/init.d/nginx start

For more info or help, see the {official Moonshine tutorial}[https://github.com/railsmachine/moonshine/wiki/Tutorial].

== Running Tests

It's easy enough:

    $ gem install shadow_puppet isolate-scenarios
    $ rake spec

{isolate-scenarios}[http://github.com/technicalpickles/isolate-scenarios] is used to test against multiple versions of Rails. To run all scenarios at once:

   $ isolate-scenarios rake spec

== Getting Help

You can find more examples in the documentation[http://railsmachine.github.com/moonshine] and on the Wiki[https://github.com/railsmachine/moonshine/wiki].

For help or general discussion, visit the Moonshine newsgroup[http://groups.google.com/group/railsmachine-moonshine].
